---
category: [create]
---

#### What is Metadata?


*Metadata* is "Data that provides descriptive information (content, context, quality, structure, and accessibility) about a data product and enables others to search for and use the data product." It uses a Greek prefix "meta" and Latin for "data." "Meta" means "after, behind or beyond" and "data" is factual information used for calculating, reasoning or measuring. Metadata means something behind or beyond data itself, and it includes data about its content, containers and contextual information. 

<br/>
<br/>

People have described it as "Data about data," "Structured information that describes, explains, locates, or otherwise makes it easier to retrieve, use, or manage an information resource," and more humorously, "A love letter to the future."

#### Examples of Everyday Metadata
<br/>
<br/>

Every library keeps metadata about the books in their collection. Some examples of the metadata they might keep include titles, authors, publishers, subject areas, and synopses.
![1]

Nutrition facts are metadata related to the food we eat.
![2]

Reports of weather contitions contain metadata about the location, equipment, time, and more.
![3]

#### Metadata Fills the Gaps in Data
<br/>
<br/>

Metadata helps us answer questions we may have about data:

- Who createed this data?
- What is the content of the data?
- When and where were the data created?
- Where is it located?
- How were the data developed?
- Why was the data developed?

#### Metadata Exsists in Many Places
<br/>
<br/>

All of the following are places metadata could exist:

- Lab documentation
- Raw data files from instruments
- Processed data files
- Field notes
- Spreadsheets
- Lab notebooks
- ReadMe files
- In your brain or your colleagues' brains


#### Why is Metadata Important?

##### It Provides Context for Data Users

- When *providing* data, think about what details should be included
- When *recieving* data, think about what details you would like to know

##### It Limits Information Entropy

Metadata helps keep data useful as time goes on.

![4] 

##### It Helps to Effectively Share Data with Others, and Your Future Self


#### Chemistry Specific Metadata

##### Bibliographic

###### Creator / Contributor

An ORCID can uniquely identify and disambiguate a single author/creator/researcher. Researchers often include their OpenResearch and Contributor ID (ORCID) with research or data. This is important because there may be many people of the same name even in one specific subject area.

###### Associated Publication

A DOI (Dital Object Identifier) can uniquely identify publications, datasets, and other published resources. They are often generated with new research and data.
![5]

###### Creation Date and Time

Including metadata about when the data was created helps provided context

###### Data Types

Including metadata about data types provided and used can help with reproducibility and accessibility.

###### Funding Information

###### Version Number

Including a version number can help identify which version of a dataset, software, or other digital object was used in a specific experiment.

##### Contextual

###### Experimental Conditions

###### Instrument Parameters

###### Other Technical Information

##### Substance/Compound

###### Persistend Identifier

###### Chemical Structure

###### Biomolecular sequence



[1]:/img/metadata/bookmeta.png
[2]:/img/metadata/foodmeta.jpg
[3]:/img/metadata/weathermeta.png
[4]:/img/metadata/entropy.png
[5]:/img/metadata/doi.png
